>> Kyle Simpson: Can you see why lazy
array, if it existed, would allow us to
adapt all of the concepts that we
know about functional programming,
we know how to do them over arrays.
Well, now we can do them over lazy arrays,
which means we can do all
of these functional things over time,
including even things like transducing.
You could even do monads over time.
Everybody follow what I'm saying,
if we had this sort of a lazy array or
a lazy map sort of function.
Well, we don't have map lazy,
and we don't have lazy array, but
what we do have is called observables.
A lazy array,
the way I have formulated it for
you, is essentially,
conceptually an observable.
>> Kyle Simpson: If you haven't
heard about observables,
my favorite metaphor for
them is it's kind of like a spreadsheet.
If you take a value in a spreadsheet,
like you put three in the cell A1, and
then over here in cell B5,
you say B5 is whatever is in A1 times two.
And so now B5 is showing you the value 6,
right?
Because you have three here and six here.
What happens if you change that to 4?
If you change sell A1 to 4,
what's going to show up and cell B5?
Instantaneously it's gonna show 8, right?
There is a relationship
between the cell B5 and A1 and
that relationship is a mapping
that doubles the value.
It is that equation that
is mapping the value.
And that is essentially the same
thing as what we were just showing.
It's the idea of an observable which
is an asynchronous flow of data.
If I put the number four here, it flows
through a mapping operation over to this
other cell and if I were to take another
cell like C10 and have it be whatever
is in B5 plus one, what a C5 gonna be
showing, it's gonna be showing 9 now.
What happens if I change
this value to 5 again?
Well, now, we're gonna have 5, 10 and 11.
You see how the data flowed
asynchronously through that stream?
That's my favorite metaphor for
describing the concept of an observable.